DAN (VOICEOVER): Since our return
to Earth after defeating Zenoheld,
a whole lot has happened.
The most exciting thing is that Bakugan Interspace finally
went online globally, allowing kids from all over the world
to show their battling skills in a safe and friendly
environment.
Unfortunately, it seems like not everyone
wants this virtual realm to remain happy and free.
A mysterious evil force from another world
has infiltrated Bakugan Interspace
and is trying to take over.
OK, buddy, let's do this.
All right!
Bakugan, brawl!
THEME SONG: What are you gonna do?
The odds are stacked against you.
Back against the wall.
Gotta give it your all.
Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand.
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You gotta fight for what's right before it's gone, gone, gone.
This is Bakugan.
[suspenseful music]
Scanning quadrant omega for the Element.
Negative.
Anything in your sector, Glotronoid?
Nothing here, but we'll keep looking.
Copy that.
Returning to base.
BARODIUS: What do you mean you don't have the Element?
We successfully broke through outer shield
and took down the Neathian front line, but--
Unfortunately, your highness, in spite of our searching,
the Element was nowhere to be found.
Captain Elright was amongst those
whom we managed to capture.
However, our interrogation of him has been fruitless.
BARODIUS: Incompetent fools!
Clearly you don't understand that failure is not an option.
I must possess the power that exists within the Element.
Sire.
It's only a matter of time.
Once I possess the Element, the universe is mine!
[energetic music]
DAN (VOICEOVER): The Bakugan Battle
Brawlers in \"The Element.\"
I can't believe that Linus lost his Bakugan Neo
to the Gundalians, especially since the Element is
hidden within him.
Hopefully, the Gundalians don't
realize what they have yet.
Otherwise, Neathia is doomed.
Fabia, just what is this Element, anyway, huh?
Perhaps it's the reason Gundalia attacked
Neathia in the first place.
Well, the Element is the ancient life force of Neathia.
What exactly do you mean by life force?
FABIA: The power that comprises the Element is like nothing
else in the known universe.
It has the ability to turn the driest deserts
into fertile farmland.
It can bring happiness and prosperity where once there
was only sadness and despair.
Unfortunately, such great power is also a source of temptation,
and there are those who wish to harness it,
then twist and distort it for their own evil purposes.
The Gundalians are such a people.
So, does that answer all of your questions, Dan?
Now do you understand why it's so important we get it back?
Yeah.
If those dillweed Gundalians get their hands on it,
Neathia's toast.
No, not just Neathia.
The Gundalians won't stop until they rule--
JULIE: Everyone!
ALL: Huh?
JULIE: It's Linus!
Whoa, take it easy, Linus.
You need to lie down.
Leave me alone.
I have to fix it.
It's all my fault.
What's going on?
Linus is f-- f-- f-- freaking out!
He says he's gonna go after the Gundalians
himself and get the Element back.
Dude can barely stand up straight.
Tell him to chill out before he hurts himself, will you?
Are you kidding me?
Julie is right, Linus.
You need to rest right now.
I'm sorry, Princess, but not even you can stop me.
Linus, please wait.
To lose my partner Bakugan and the Element
right in front of my eyes.
[groans] I have to get them back before I--
[groaning]
Don't worry, Linus.
We'll get them back for you, pal.
Huh?
It's not just for Neathia.
The freedom of the entire universe is at stake.
Oh.
Hmm?
What is this?
It's an ID tag worn by the Castle Knights.
It's also a symbol of the brotherhood
between battler and Bakugan.
Linus, you can count on us.
We will get Neo back for you.
I promise, buddy.
Right, Drago?
Absolutely.
Neo Zip Zam sounds like a brave and noble Bakugan.
I'm very anxious to meet him.
Dan.
Drago.
I--
Come on, Linus.
You have to put your trust in Dan and the battle brawlers.
Yes, very well.
Yeah!
Now that that's settled, let's saddle up
and hit Bakugan Interspace with a vengeance.
Yeah! [cheering]
JAKE: All right, dudes!
Let's do this!
You better move fast.
It's only a matter of time before Neo's secret
is uncovered.
KAZARINA: A Bakugan belonging to a Castle Knight?
Yes.
We took it in battle from Linus, a Castle
Knight who escaped to Earth from the Neathian front line.
The strange thing is the Bakugan has sealed itself in ball form
and won't budge no matter what I do.
An escaped Castle Knight and a sealed Bakugan?
That is very strange indeed.
If it refuses to open, then it must have something to hide.
Yeah, such as?
My guess would be that it has something
to do with the Element.
Huh?
KAZARINA: Return to Gundalia immediately with the Bakugan.
I'll examine it.
I'm confident my methods will be fruitful.
Of course.
SID: Well, well, look at the little weasel hiding
in his hole.
While we're out doing your dirty work recruiting soldiers,
you're in here playing teacher's pet.
Have you no shame, Ren?
Huh?
What do you want, Sid?
Well, maybe I'd like to try doing your job
for a little while, Ren.
I think I'd be awesome at it.
Get your hands off that.
I'm supposed to bring it to the emperor.
Hand it over!
Easy.
Take it easy, tiger.
Ha!
Maybe I'll take this Bakugan to the emperor
and score some brownie points.
You wouldn't.
COMPUTER: Intruder alert.
Intruder alert.
Bakugan Interspace has been breached.
Huh?
What now?
Blasted brawlers.
Hmm, this should be interesting.
[laughs] Hey, touchdown, kiddies!
What should we do now?
Keep our eyes peeled, for a start.
They wouldn't likely leave Neo out in the open, would they?
Dan?
Where are you running to so fast?
They must have Neo hidden somewhere.
I'm gonna try the Baku room.
Dan, slow down.
Yeah, dude.
You need to take it down a notch and form a plan of attack.
There's no time, guys.
We gotta go, pitter-patter!
Dan the Man!
- Should we follow him? - Yes, come on.
Let's go.
Right.
Slow down, dude!
Huh?
[all yelling]
Ow, my spleen.
Huh?
We got teleported to a battle arena, but why?
SID: It's called a trap door, you pack of numskulls.
Did you really think we'd just leave the gaping hole you put
in our security system open?
Maybe.
I take it y'all came to get your precious Bakugan back.
Or maybe you're here because of the secret
this little guy is keeping locked up inside.
That's it, isn't it?
He's got--
--Neo with him!
Sid, what are you doing?
Get lost.
This is none of your business here, Ren.
[growls]
Give him back to us, now!
If you want your little friend back,
you guys are gonna have to face me in a battle arena.
What the?
[growls]
OK, Sid.
You want a fight?
You got it, pal.
DAN (VOICEOVER): Go get 'em, Drago!
REN (VOICEOVER): We must get that Bakugan
to Emperor Barodius, Linehalt.
[suspenseful music]
ANNOUNCER: The Bakugan Battle featuring
Dan and Sid will now begin!
Come on and get him back, Dan.
I'm gonna trounce you by more than 500 points, pal.
And then I'm gonna take Neo back from you.
Hmm.
ANNOUNCER: Bakugan field, open!
Gate card, set!
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand.
What the?
SID: Go, Pyrus Rubanoid!
[energetic music]
[all gasping]
[roaring]
He threw Rubanoid.
What's with the bait and switch, you weasel?
What are you talking about, brawler?
I never said I was gonna battle you with Neo.
DAN: What?
Rubanoid and I have a score to settle with you two first.
We can't move forward until we crush
you and Drago once and for all.
We're both Pyrus battlers, Dan.
You should understand why I need to take you down.
Sid.
We're gonna have to take down Rubanoid first.
Which will force him to take out Neo in the next round.
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand.
Come on!
Pyrus Helix Dragonoid!
Ha.
I'm gonna make you pay for every smart aleck
comment you ever made to me.
Ability activate!
Corundum Tusk!
[grunting]
Ability activate!
Dragon Hummer!
[grunting]
Do you really think you can take me down that easily?
Ability activate!
Firim Tornado!
[grunting]
Nice one!
Keep the pressure on, Dan!
Don't get too excited, kids.
Gate card, open!
Ruby Storm!
Ah!
What's this?
[roars]
Rubanoid's power level just shot up.
The command card Ruby Storm not only ups Rubanoid's power
level, but it also enables the activation
of battle gear level 2.
So buckle up, kiddies.
COMPUTER: Ready Destrakon Gear.
All right.
Battle gear boost!
Yah!
[energetic music]
[roaring]
Battle gear ability activate!
Destrakon Gear Vickers.
[hissing]
[gasps]
[yelling]
Drago!
[laughs]
I won't give up.
Can't let Linus down.
[grunting]
What are you yapping about?
I made a promise that I would get Neo back,
and I intend to keep it.
We both do.
Now it's our turn.
COMPUTER: Ready JetKor.
Battle gear boost!
[energetic music]
[roars]
Let's go, Drago!
Battle gear ability activate!
JetKor Delta!
We're not scared.
Go get 'em, Rubanoid!
With pleasure.
You'll pay for that.
In your dreams, Rubanoid.
We'll see about that.
[grunting]
COMPUTER: Sid life force, 80%.
Yeah!
That's right!
Sweet!
I don't get it.
We hit 'em with the level 2 class battle gear ability.
Drago is very powerful.
Pipe down.
Who asked you?
I think I'll throw first this time.
Gate card, set!
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand!
[roaring]
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand!
I'm coming for you, Drago.
[growls]
Consecutive ability activate.
Scarlet Plate and Red Deeper.
Uh-oh.
Light him up!
[grunting]
[laughs]
Ugh!
It's a booster shield.
That means his power will be amplified several times over.
Oh, no!
Ability activate.
Burning Reflector.
[grunting]
[groaning]
All right, battle gear boost.
Yah!
[energetic music]
[grunting]
Battle gear ability activate.
Destrakon Gear Brinel.
[hissing]
[yelling]
Give up, Drago.
You're finished.
Dan, a little help.
Yup.
Ability activate.
Hyper Helix Shield.
No, no, no!
Why isn't my attack working?
Ah!
What's this?
No way!
We need to win this so we can return
to Gundalia with a victory and this trophy for the emperor.
What the?
It's open now?
Can you feel that?
It's coursing right through me.
What are you--
Can't you see?
It's the Element.
That's what this little guy has been hiding
from us by staying locked.
We don't need this, Sid.
I can beat Drago on my own.
Using it will guarantee a win.
Don't do it.
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand!
Rise, Pyrus Neo Zip Zam.
[all gasping]
You ready, buddy?
Yes.
I can finally beat Drago.
Huh?
What's happening?
[all yelling]
[suspenseful music]
Huh?
Ah!
Ah, Drago!
[suspenseful music]
What is all this?
NEO: At last, we meet.
Huh?
Neo?
What's happening?
Drago, it is our fate that we finally meet.
Our fate?
Yes.
Until now, it has been my responsibility
to protect the Element.
But the time has come for me to pass it on to you.
What?
The people of Neathia are counting on you.
Wait.
My mission here is over.
Good luck, Drago.
[yelling]
Whoa!
What-- what just happened?
Huh?
Ah!
Drago, you've evolved again, pal.
Huh?
\"Lumino Dragonoid.\"
Lumino Dragonoid!
What?
Lumino Dragonoid, huh?
But-- but how?
How did this happen?
Tell me, how?
Neo made Drago evolve.
I guess Neo did possess the Element after all.
Who cares if he's evolved?
So what?
I'm not through with him yet.
[growls]
[energetic music]
Check it, Drago.
Ability activate!
Cross Fire!
[roars]
[yelling]
COMPUTER: Sid life force, zero.
[growls] No way!
Yes, Sid.
They got the Element back.
Nice play.
Hey, it's not my fault.
Dude, that was so cool the way you evolved like that.
I must admit, I never expected this to happen.
Me neither.
I feel very strange now that the Element is part of me.
How so, pal?
I feel tapped into the entire universe.
Hold on a second.
Where's Neo?
Huh?
NEO: Linus?
Linus?
Neo!
You came back.
Huh?
What's wrong?
You seem a lot different.
Yes.
I've passed along the Element to a more
powerful and worthy Bakugan.
It was the right thing to do for Neathia.
I understand.
Be well, my friend.
[solemn music]
Hey, Linus.
I brought you a fruit basket.
Oh, no.
What's wrong, hun?
[crying]
You've got some nerve showing your face
here after losing the Element.
I have no use for fools in my inner circle.
But, sire.
Are you serious?
You can't just dismiss us like that.
[growls]
Rubanoid.
How dare you!
Insolent fool.
Our loyalty deserves respect.
Do you hear me?
Ah!
(LAUGHING) Oh.
I can use this one in my experiments.
Rubanoid, no!
Emperor Barodius, give us another chance.
Huh?
Ren?
Grant us a pardon this time, and I promise
we will take down the brawlers.
We will redeem ourselves.
BARODIUS: Silence!
Begging for your life, Ren?
How weak and pathetic you are.
So Drago has been infused with the Element?
You had best not waste any time capturing Drago and retrieving
the Element, Ren.
Don't make me regret giving you a second chance.
DAN (VOICEOVER): Now that we possess the Element,
we needed to get to Neathia to help fend off the Gundalians.
We were planning our attack when things started getting freaky.
First Zenet showed up and challenged us to a throwdown,
then I started seeing double.
Am I going crazy?
Somebody tell me.
Two Julies?
What's going on here?
Oh, man, my brain hurts.
It's some seriously crazy stuff you need to see to believe.
Let's go!
Bakugan, brawl!
DAN (VOICEOVER): Whoa, hang on a sec.
Who the heck is this guy?
[theme music]